## mkdir, mkdirat, and rmdir Functions

Directories are created with the mkdir and mkdirat functions, and deleted with the rmdir function. 

```
#include <sys/stat.h>
int mkdir(const char *pathname, mode_t mode);
int mkdirat(int fd, const char *pathname, mode_t mode);
```
These funtions creat a new, empty directory. The entries for dot and dot-dot are  
created automatically.The specified file aceess permissions, mode, are modified by  
the file mode creation mask of the process. 
nwnwee  A common mistake is to specify the same mode as for a file: read and write  
permission only. But for a directory, we normally want at least one of the excute bits  
enabled, to allow access to filenames within the directory.(See Exercise 4.16.)  
  The *urer* ID and *group* ID of the new directory are established according to the  
rules we descibed in Section 4.6  
  The *mkdirat* function is similar to the *mkdir* function. When the *fd* argument has  
the special value **AT_FDCWD**, or when the *pathname* argument specifies an absoblute  
pathname, *mkdirat* behaves exactly like mkdir. Otherwise, the *fd* argument is an  
open directory from which relative pathnames will be evaluated. 
  An empty directory is deleted with the *rmdir* function. Recall that an empty  
directory is one that contains entries only for dot and dot-dot.  

```
#include <unistd.h>
int rmdir(const char* *pathname*);
```
If the link count of the directory becomes 0 with this call, and if no other process has the  
directory open, then the occupied by the directory is freed. If one or more  
processes have the directory open when the link count reaches 0, the last link is  
removed and the dot and dot-dot entries are removed before this function returns.  
Additionally, no new files can be created in the directory. The directory is not free,  
however, until the last process closes it. (Even though some other process has the  
directory open, it can't be doing much in the dirctory, as the directory had to be empty  
for the *rmdir* function to succeed.)
