## Reading Dirctories
Directories can be read by anyone who has access permission to read the directory. But  
only the kernel can write to a directory, to preserve file system sanity. Recall from  
Section 4.5 that the write permission bits and exectue permission bits for a directory  
determine if we can create new files in the directory and remove files from the  
directory--they don't specify if we can write to the directory itself.
  The actual format of a directory depends on the UNIX System implementation and  
the design of the file system. Earlier systems, such as Version 7, had a simple structure:  
each directory entry was 16 bytes, with 14 bytes for the filename and 2 bytes for the  
i-node number. When longer filenames were added to 4.2BSD, each entry became  
variable length, which means that any program that reads a directory is now system  
dependent. To simplify the process of reading a directory, a set of directory routines  
were developed and are part of POSIX.1. Many implementations prevent applications  
from using the read function to access the contents of directories, thereby further  
isolating applications from the implementation-specific details of directory formats.  

```
#include <dirent.h>
DIR* opendir(const char* *pathname*);
DIR* fdopendir(int *fd*);
struct dirent* readir(DIR* *dp*);
void rewinddir(DIR* *dp*);
int closedir(DIR* *dp*);
long telldir(DIR* *dp*);
void seekdir(DIR* *dp*);
```
  The fdopendir function first appered in version 4 of the Single UNIX  
Specification. It provides a way to convert an open file descriptor into a DIR structure  
for use by the directory handing functions.  
  The telldir and seekdir functions are not part of the base POSIX.1 standard.  
They are included in the XSI option in the Single UNIX Specification, so all conforming  
UNIX System implementations are expected to provide them.  
  Recall our use of several of these functions in the program shown in Figure 1.3, our  
bare-bones implementation of the ls command.  
  The *dirent* structure defined in <dirent.h> is implementation dependent.  
Implementations define the structure to contain at least the following two members:  
```
ino_t d_ino;              /* i-node number */
char d_name[];            /* null-terminsted filename */
```
  Note that the size of the d_name entry isn't specified, but it is guaranteed to hold at  
least NAMW_MAX characters, not including the terminating null byte(recall Figure 2.15.)  
Since the filename is null terminated, however, it doesn't matter how d_name is defined  
in the header, becuase the array size doesn't indicate the length of the filename.  
  The DIR structure is an internal structure used by these seven functions to maintain  
information about the directory being read. The purpose of the DIR structure is similar  
to that of the **FILE** structure maintained by the standard I/O libary, which we describe  
in Chaper 5.
  The pointer to a DIR structure returned by *opendir* and *fdopendir* is then used  
with the other five functions. The *opendir* funciton initializes things so that the first  
*readdir* returns the first entry in the directory. When the DIR structure is created by  
*fdopendir*, the first entry returned by *readdir* depends on the file offest associated  
with the file descriptor passed to *fdopendir*. Note that the ordering of entries within  
the directory is implementation dependent and is usually not alphabetical.

##Example
We'll use these directory routines to write a parogram that traverses a file hierarchy. The  
goal is produce a count of the various types of files shown in Figure 4.4. The  
program shown in Figure 4.22 takes a single argument--the starting pathname--and  
recursively descends the hierarchy from that point. Solaris provides a function, **ftw(3)**,  
that performs the actual traversal of the hierarchy, calling a user-defined function for  
each file. The problem with this function is that it calls the **stat** function for each file,  
which causes the program to follow symblic links. For example, if we start at the root  
and have a symblic link named **/lib** that points to **/usr/lib**, all the files in the  
directory **/usr/lib** are counted twice. To correct this problem, Solaris provides an  
additional function, **nftw(3)**, with an option that stops it from following symblic links.  
Although we could use **nftw**, we'll write our own simple file walker to show the use of  
the directory routines.

  To illustrate the **ftw** and **nftw** functions, we have provided more generality in this  
program than needed. For example, the function **myfunc** always returns 0, even  
though the function that calls it is prepared to handle a nonezero return.  
  For additional information on descending through a file system and using this  
technique in many standard UNIX System commands-- **find**, **ls**, **tar**, and so  
on--refer to Fowler, Korn, and Vo[1989].
