## chdir, fchdir, and getcwd Functions
Every process has a current working directory. This directory is where the search for all  
relative pathnames starts(i.e., with all pathnames that do not begin with a slash). When  
a user logs in to a UNIX system, the current working directory normally starts at the  
directory specified by the sixth field in the **/etc/passwd** file--the user's home  
directory. The current working directory is an attribute of a process; the home directory  
is an attribute of a login name.
&ensp;&ensp;We can change the current working directory of the calling process by calling the  
*chdir* or *fchdir* function.  

```
#include <unistd.h>
int chdir(const char* *pathname*);

int fchdir(int *fd*);
```
We can specify the new current working directory either as a *pathname* or though an  
open file descriptor.  

## Example
Because it is attribute of a process, the current working directory cannot affect  
processes that invoke the process that execute the *chdir*. (We descibe the  
relationship between processes in more detail in Chapter 8.) As a result, the program in  
Figure 4.23 doesn't do what we might expect.  

```
#include "apue.h"

int 
main(void)
{
  if (chdir("/tmp") < 0)
    err_sys("chdir failed");
  printf("chdir to /tmp succeeded\n");
  exit(0);
}
```
If we complie this program, call the executable *mycd*, and run it, we get the following:  
```
$ pwd
/usr/lib
$ mycd
chdir to /tmp succeeded
$ pwd
/usr/lib
```
The current working directory for the shell that executed the *mycd* program didn't  
change. This is a side effect of the way that the shell execute programs. Each program  
is run in a separate process, so the current working directory of the shell is unaffected  
by the call to *chdir* in the program. For this reason, the *chdir* function has to be  
called directly from the shell, so the *cd* command is built into the shells.  

&ensp;&ensp;Because the kernel must maintain knowledge of the current working directory, we  
should be able to fetch its current value. Unfortunately, the kernel doesn't maintain the  
full pathname of the directory. Instead, the kernel keeps information about the  
directory, such as a pointer to the directory's v-node.  
&ensp;&ensp;What we need is a function that starts at the current working directory (dot) and  
works its way up the directory hierarchy, using dot-dot to move up one level. At each  
level, the function reads the directory entries until it finds the name that corresponds to  
the i-node of the directory that it just came from. Repeating this procedure until the  
rott is encounterd yields the entrie absolute pathname of the current working  
directory. Fortunately, a function already exists that does this work for us.  

```
#include <unistd.h>
char* getcwd(char* buf, size_t size);
```
We must pass to this function the address of a buffer, *buf*, and its *size*(in bytes). The  
buffer must be large enough to accommodate the absolute pathname plus the terminating  
null byte, or else an error will be returned. (Recall the diecussion of allocating space for  
a maximum-sized pathname in Section 2.5.5.)

##Example
The program in Figure 4.24 changes to a specific directory and then calls **getcwd** to  
print the working directory. If we run the program, we get  

```
$ **./a.out**  
cwd = /var/spool/uucppublic  
$ **ls -l /usr/spool**  
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root 12 Jan 31 07:57 /usr/spool -> ../var/spool  
```

```
#include <apue.h>
int 
main(void)
{
  char *ptr;
  size_t size;
  if (chdir("/usr/spool/uucppublic") < 0)
    err_sys("chdir failed");

  path_alloc(&size);
  if (getcwd(ptr, size) == NULL)
    err_sys("getcwd failed");

  printf("cwd = %s\n", ptr);
  exit(0);
}
```
Note that **chdir** follows the symblic link--as we expect it ro , from Figure 4.17--but  
when it goes up the directory tree, **getcwd** has no idea when it hits the **/var/spool**  
directory that it is pointed to by the symblic link **/usr/spool**. This is a characteristic  
of symblic links.  

&ensp;&ensp;The **getcwd** function is useful when we have an application that needs to return to  
the location in the file system where it started out. We can save the strating location by  
calling **getcwd** before we change our working directory. After we complete our  
processing, we can pass the pathname obtained from **getcwd** to **chdir** to return to our  
starting location in the file system.  
&ensp;&ensp;The **fchdir** function provides us with an easy way to accomplish this task. Instead  
of calling **getcwd**, we can open the current directory and save the file descriptor before  
we change to a different location in the file system. When we want to return to where  
we started, we can simply pass the file descriptor to **fchdir**.  

