##Device Special Files
The two fields **st_dev** adn **st_rdev** are often confused. We'll need to use these fields  
in Section 18.9 when we write the **ttyname** function. The rules for their use are simple.  
- Every file system is known by its major and minor device numbers, which are 
  encoded in the primitive system data type **dev_t**. The major number identifies  
  the device driver and sometimes encodes which peripheral board to  
  communicatie with; the minor number identifies the specific subdevice. Recall  
  from Figure 4.13 that a disk drive often contains serval file systems. Each file  
  system on the same disk drive would usually have the same major number, but  
  a different minor number.  
- We can usually access the major and minor device numbers through two macors  
  defined by most implementations: **major** and **minor** . Consequently, we don't  
  care how the two numbers are stored in a **dev_t** object.  
- The **st_dev** value for every filename on a system is the device number of the  
  file system containing that filename and its corresponding i-node.  
- Only character special files and block special files have an **st_rdev** value. This  
  value contains the device number for the actual device.  

##Example
The program in Figure 4.25 prints the device number for each command-line argument.  
Additionally, if the argument refers to a character specail file or a block special file, the  
**st_rdev** value for the special file is printed.

```
#include "apue.h"
#ifdef SOLARIS
#include <sys/mkdev.h>
#endif

int 
main(int argc, char* argv[])
{
  int i;
  struct stat buf;

  for (i = 1; i < argc; i++) {
    printf("%s: ", argv[i]);
    if (stat(argv[i]), &buf) < 0) {
      err_ret("stat error");
      continue;
    }

    printf("dev = %d/%d", major(buf.st_dev), minor(buf.st_dev));

    if (S_ISCHR(buf.st_mode) || S_ISBLK(buf.st_mode)) {
      printf(" (%s) rdev = %d/%d", 
                (S_ISCHR(buf.st_mode)) ? "character" : "block", 
                major(buf.st_rdev), minor(buf.st_rdev));
    }
    printf("\n");
  }

  exit(0);
}
```
Running this program on Linux gives us the following output:  

```
$ ./a.out / /home/sar /dev/tty[01]  
/: dev = 8/3  
/home/sar: dev = 8/4  
/dev/tty0: dev = 0/5 (character) rdev = 4/0  
/dev/tty1: dev = 0/5 (character) rdev = 4/1  
$ mount                      which directories are mounted on which devices?  
/dev/sda3 on / type ext3 (rw, errors=remount-ro,commit=0)  
/dev/sda4 on /home type ext3 (rw,commit=0)  
$ ls -l /dev /tty[01] /dev/sda[34]  
brw-rw---- 1 root 8, 3 2011-07-01 11:08 /dev/sda3  
brw-rw---- 1 root 8, 4 2011-07-01 11:08 /dev/sda4  
crw--w---- 1 root 4, 0 2011-07-01 11:08 /dev/tty0  
crw------- 1 root 4, 1 2011-07-01 11:08 /dev/tty1  
```
The first two arguments to the program are directories(*/ and /home/sar*), and the  
next two are the device names */dev/tty[01]*. (We use the shell's regular expression  
language to shorten the amount of typing we need to do. The shell will expand the  
string */dev/tty[01]* to */dev/tty0 /dev/tty1*.)  
  We expect the devices to be character special files. The output from the program  
shows that the root directory has a different device number than does the */home/sar*  
directory, which indicates that they are on different file system. Running the **mount(1)**  
command verifies this.  
  We then use **ls** to look at the two disk devices reported by **mount** and the two  
terminal devices. The two disk devices are block special files, and the two terminal  
devices are character special files. (Normally, the only types of devices that are block  
disk drives, and CD-ROMs, for example. Some older UNIX systems supported  
magentic tapes for file systems, but this was never widely used.)  
  Note that the filenames and i-nodes for the two terminal devices (*st_dev*) are on  
device 0/5--the devtmpfs pesudo file system, which implements the */dev*--but that  
their actual device numbers are 4/0 and 4/1.  

