##Streams and FILE Objects
In Chapter 3, all the I/O routines centered on file descriptors. When a file is opened, a  
file descriptor is returned, and that descriptor is then used for all subsequent I/O  
operations. With the standard I/O library, the discussion centers on *streams*. (Do not  
confuse the standard I/O term *stream* with the STREAMS option in the Single UNIX  
Specification, but is now marked obsolesent in SUSv4.) When we open or create a file  
with the standard I/O library, we say that we have associated a stream with the file.  

&ensp;&ensp;With the ASCII character set, a single character is represented by a single byte. With  
international character set, a character can be represented by more than one byte.  
Standard I/O file streams can be used with both single-byte and multibyte("wide")  
character sets. A stream's orientation determines whether the characters that are read  
and written are single byte or multibyte. Initially, when a stream is created, it has no  
orientation. If a multibyte I/O function (see <wchar.h>) is used on a stream without  
orientation, the stream's orientation is set to wide oriented. If a byte I/O function is  
used on a stream without orientation, the stream's orientation is set to byte oriented.  
Only two functions can change the orientation once set. The **freopen** function  
(discussed shortly) will clear a stream's oriention; the **fwide** function can be used to  
set a stream's orientation.

```
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>
int fwide(FILE* fp, int mode);
```
The **fwide** function performs different tasks, depending on the value of the *mode*  
argument.  
- If the *mode* argument is negative, **fwide** will try to make the specified stream  
byte oriented.
- If the *mode* argument is positive, **fwide** will try to make the specified stream  
wide oriented.
- If the *mode* argument is zero, **fwide** will not try to set the orientation, but will  
still return a value identifying the stream's orientation.  

&ensp;&ensp;Note that **fwide** will not change the orientation of a stream that is already oriented.  
Also note that there is no error return. Consider what would happen if the stream is  
invalid. The only recourse we have is to clear **errno** before calling **fwide** and check  
the value of **errno** when we return. Throughout the rest of this book, we will deal only  
with byte-oriented streams.
&ensp;&ensp;When we open a stream, the standard I/O function **fopen** (Section 5.5)returns a  
pointer to a **FILE** object. This object is normally a structure that contains all the  
information required by the standard I/O library to manage the stream: the file  
descriptor used for actual I/O, a pointer to a buffer for the stream, the size of the buffer,  
a count of the number of characters currently in the buffer, an error flag, and the like.  
&ensp;&ensp;Application software should never need to examine a **FILE** object. To reference the  
stream, we pass its **FILE** pointer as an argument to each standard I/O function.  
Throughout this text, we'll refer to a pointer to a **FILE** object, the type **FILE** \*, as a *file pointer*.  
&ensp;&ensp;Throughout this chapter, we describe the standard I/O library in the context of a  
UNIX system. As we mentioned, this library has been ported to a wide variety of other  
operating systems. To provide some insight about how this library can be  
implemented, we will talk about its typical implementation on a UNIX system.  

